hello I'm Marian maseri a very warm
welcome to the Daily Global on BBC News
let's start in the Middle East where in
the last hour Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu has said Israel will
not be satisfied with anything other
than total victory over Hamas he also
said Israeli troops have been ordered to
prepare to operate in Rafa in southern
Gaza let's listen to some of what he had
to say tonight I am here to tell you one
thing we are on our way to a complete
Victory the victory is our reach it's
not about years or decades it's about
months the IDF is doing wonderful work
it's working systematically in order to
achieve all of the goals of the world
that we the at the political ranks have
given it which is relinquishing Kamas
releasing the hostages and making sure
Gaza is not threatening Israel anymore
to begin with I said that the final
Victory is our goal this was the
decision I brought to the government at
the beginning of the war and we will not
we will not be satisfied with
les on the next half an hour we're
expecting to hear from US Secretary of
State Anthony blinkin following his
talks with Israeli and Palestinian
officials now those talks come after
what many people see as a positive
reaction from Hamas to a proposed
ceasefire deal which was put together
last week but Mr blinkin has now met
both the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu and president Isaac Herzog and
has described a ceasefire deal as both
possible and essential well some reports
suggest the plan provides for a truce of
at least 40 days in return for the
release of Civilian hostages held by
Hamas for now though the war which broke
out in October continues the Hamas run
Health Ministry in Gaza said at least
100 people were killed overnight and
there has been heavy further heavy
bombing of Southern cities including in
Rafa meanwhile Israel says 31 of the
hostages held by Hamas and other groups
in Gaza are now known to have died well
let's hear now from Mr blinken about the
ongoing hostage situation the hostages
are foremost uh on our minds and in our
hearts uh and uh as as you know uh we
now have uh a response from Hamas to the
proposal that was uh put on the table
Way Forward we're looking at it
intensely well Gerson Basin was an
Israeli negotiator for 17 years says he
gave his assessment on the ceasefire
negotiations the Hamas response does
enable some room to maneuver if Hamas
would be willing to separate the first
phase from the second and the third in
other words if Hamas wants a ceasefire
now for 45 days which is something that
I think the Israeli Army would like as
well this could be done and we could see
the release of Civilian hostages from
Gaza those who were remaining
alive well with me now is BBC's chief
Chief International correspondent lease
duet and Lee a difficult job for Mr
blinkin this puts him in a very very
tough position all we've had is these
very public remarks by prime minister
Netanyahu a ferocious rebuke to these
really incessant efforts by the United
States and its Arab Partners to come up
with a plan and it's hard to square
prime minister netanyahu's description
of the Hamas counter offer as
delusional with the remarks we heard
yesterday from the Qatari prime minister
a key mediator in these talks he
described it as positive uh Anthony
blinkin in his first remarks we'll wait
to hear from him shortly he had said
that it was the best way forward a lot
of work still to be done but trying to
give a sense that there was still
something to work for but listening to
prime minister Netanyahu you had a
feeling that this was dead in the water
now he may saying that for public effect
it is known you know sources say that
sometimes in private negotiations he
adopts a different tone and a greater
Readiness to consider proposals but the
Israelis seem to see this as an effort
by Hamas to end the war on its own terms
which is utterly unacceptable but it's
interesting what gersan Basin said which
is which goes to the heart of the matter
now is it possible to salvage something
from this proposal the Hamas counter
offer is a three-phase one over about
135 days and the first phase which would
include a a temporary pause of about 45
days would release the most vulnerable
of the hostages women children the
elderly the ones of which there is
greatest concern about greatest there's
concern about all of them but those
first in exchange for some prisoners and
some desperately needed humanitarian aid
but we make it we'll see just what kind
of a tone um and blinkin adopts uh it's
it's very cuz this is all there is right
now and it's all about tone isn't it
really because if you heard the tone of
Mr Netanyahu you could feel there that
there was no consiliary element in his
tone at all but there never is his manra
has not shifted an inch total Victory
absolute Victory and tonight he said it
was within touching distance it was a
matter of months now as you know when
you've reported on your program there
had been assessments by his own military
team that actually they weren't that
close that Hamas was actually even in
the north of the Gaza Strip which has
been raised to the ground where Israeli
forces in large part moved away from to
concentrate on the south Hamas was
reestablishing civilian control Hamas is
still able to fire rockets at Israel and
of course alarm Bells Are Ringing right
up to the UN Secretary General Antonio
guz said if you carry out what you say
is your plan then to go for for Rafa at
the southernmost corner where half of
the population has been pushed this
would be the disaster of disasters in
the meantime people are still dying in
Gaza uh we saw the Hamas ran Health
Minister saying over 100 were killed uh
just in the last I think day or so over
27,000 Palestinians and of course there
are still Israeli hostages being held
there I mean this is the I mean Mar we
just reported that 100 died you know
before all this if one person died it
would have been a story
now given the enormity of this
staggering death toll the United Nations
says that if you try to tally up the
Dead the missing and the injured it's
actually 100,000 people which some
177,000 children having one having lost
one or both parents that's a 5% of
gaza's population and prime minister
Netanyahu and the public opinion in in
Israel backs him they want him to hit
Hamas hard as well
uh are saying they want this war to
continue but tonight of course we've
heard of the anguish of the families of
the hostages they of course have been
there's been that blow that 31 families
were told their loved ones are dead
that's a fifth of the hostages in Gaza
so tonight they are urging the Prime
Minister and others again to put the
lives of the hostages first before the
military plan